To run a successful nursery, there are many factors that need to be considered. A plant is a fragile living entity that needs to be carefully monitored. This includes taking care of the plants, observing their life cycles, and making them presentable to customers. In addition to the plants, a nursey must comprise of a professional staff of landscapers, managers, and cashiers, etc. These employees make sure that the nursery is performing well across all the different departments. In terms of facilities, plant nurseries typically have greenhouses and gardens. Also, receptions with front desks and plant exhibitions are usually there to cater for customers. Majority of plant nurseries grow multiple types of plants. 
Our first choice for our nursery was to choose which plants we would be growing and selling, these include Cactus, Lavender and Rose. Our second choice was how we would create these plants; we decided on using the Factory Method design pattern, for its simplicity. We then had to decide how we would differentiate each plant’s care and life cycles; we decided on using Strategy and State design patterns to manage these components.We also decided on using the Iterator design pattern to be able to traverse our inventory of plants, so we can easily check each plant and all its components.
To make our system unique and bring in customers, we decided to add a decorator pattern so we could customize our plants. This includes wrapping the plants, adding pots and customizable cards with plants for a personal touch. While researching we realized the importance of monitoring the plants, as they are very sensitive to their environment and each need to be maintained in different ways. Our choice of design patterns to solve this problem was a Observer pattern. It allows for a one-to-many relationship between Staff/Main and each plant in the Inventory.
We also had to make assumptions for our nursery, these include:Our plants have consistent care and life cycles.Staff are the only connection to the plants for customers. In other words, staff are only able to handle the plants and if a customer wants a plant or information about a plant they must receive it from the staff.
